---
layout: post
permalink: /2018-platform/
title: "2018 City Elections Platform"
---

## Vision  

We are parents, teachers, artists, nonprofit workers, professionals, people of color, immigrant, long-time and newcomer residents of the Eastlake in Oakland. We care about our diverse neighborhood and support the well-being of neighbors, whether they’ve been here a long time or are new. We are invested in a town where generations of families can call Oakland home without being driven out by gentrification.

## Principles

- To build communities we want to live in
- To develop trust and relationship between neighbors
- To share information and resources especially with those most in need

## Platform

### Budget

We believe in an Oakland where public resources are maximized for public good and prioritized for those who need it the most. People need to be able to look at the City budget, understand it and see how money is being spent. Community engagement in the budget process yields funding for community priorities. We call on the City to

- Produce public annual reports about how the budget is being spent by the departments or programs that were funded, and what goals they achieved.
- Promote transparency about how large unbudgeted expenditures, like police overtime, are funded and what reallocation decisions were made.
- Significantly increase funding for low income housing and public services for unhoused neighbors.

### Housing

We envision a City where government prioritizes affordable housing and development funds to ensure the broadest public good. We support public land for public good. We must grow the housing stock for low income folks and protect renters and tenants from being squeezed out of their homes. Meaningful resources must be dedicated to serving the unhoused community. We call on the City/our elected officials to

- Support and implement the people’s public lands proposal that includes following the Surplus Lands Act and establishing a community advisory committee.
- Grow the low income housing budget with creative ways to generate, find and leverage funds.
- Strengthen renter protection laws and programs, including a moratorium on SRO and condo conversions.
 
### Community Safety

Community safety means safety for all of us -- whether we rent, own homes, sleep in tents, are Black, Brown, White, immigrant, or undocumented. Real safety means being in relationship with community. We call on the City/our elected officials to

- Address police overtime in the budget so that more funds are directed toward addressing the housing and homelessness crisis.
- Stop forced evictions of homeless encampments, and instead be proactive about supporting public land and services where they can live safely.
- Promote a culture of racial and social justice so that neighbors do not call the police for everything that appears "suspicious."